# IntroToCGGolfGame

Jason's visual additions:
- The first thing I implement was the Painted + Toon shader. It pretty much behaves just like any other toon shader but this one applies a painted texture over it as well. This was used because our game was going for an painted asian asthetic like the game Sifu. The painted toon shader really helped tie the ball (which is the player) together with the rest of the world despite it being so bright of a color. This shader was quite versatile with its properties being exposed in the engine. It could be applied to other objects around the scene, as long as they have some curavature to them. If it doesn't have curavature, the lighting does not really work. All in all, I loved how it looked like it was hand painted. The floor, the walls, other objects around the scene, they all had this brush like effect. Visual cohesion really sells a game to a player as well so it was important things looked like they belonged together and was made for the same purpose
- The next one I made was a grass shader that would sway in the wind. This shader utilized vertex painting in blender to paint the top white and the bottom black. That does not seem to useful at first but that allowed me to use the vertex paint node to extract that and use it as a mask, allowing me to create a nice gradient on my grass. Another reason why I used vertex painting and used it in my shader was because I knew it could be used for more than one purpose. If you think about grass swaying, the tops sway as the bottom is rooted in the ground. Luckily the bottom of the model is painted black so that mask can be reused to root the grass to the floor and have the tops sway a lot more than the bottoms. I decided to implement grass because a golf course in games are very flat, as is the nature of golf. To make these flat surfaces more interesting, the grass and its swaying makes the terrain more dynamic without adding any obstacles that could hinder the player.
- Lastly I implemented a stylized xray effect. I had to change the way the game renders my objects tagged as "Ball." This made it so that when the object is being blocked by something, a second material gets rendered over it, creating an xray effect. The reason for an xray effect in a game like ours is simply because you sometimes end up too close to a wall or an obstacle and the camera's view is blocked. This allows the player to still see where they are and where they are aiming while creating a cool visual glow that is not seen else where.

Kates visual additions:
think the fog shader benefits our game because it adds a layer of mysticalness to our game. Not only does it serve as an environmental element that adds to the atmosphere by shrouding objects and making the world feel bigger by creating a sense of distance, it also serves as a obstacle that may effect gameplay too. For instance, objects tinted with fog are harder to see which can surprise players once they get closer to that object. it's very helpful in our game theme, which is a mystical fantasy golf game by providing a sense of wonder through the large, hidden objects. This shader affects some models on the map like the Tori and Pagodas, but can definitely be applied to much more as well because of how easily adaptable it is.

The rain shader adds a little to the aesthetic of the game. Not only does the fog give a sense of mystique, the rain definitely supports that environment too. The lone, wet weather definitely adds a lot to the game atmosphere by making it almost calming. The game takes direct reference off "Golf with friends" but you're alone and rainy weather is definitely suitable for making people feel like they're alone. So while the game possesses fantasy elements, the rain shader helps exaggerate that atmosphere and the loneliness vibe.

I think the paint shader is really beneficial because it can be adapted to many other things if we had other models to place it on. This shader makes things more painterly with the brushstroke lighting it has. I think this also adds to the fantasy elements because along with the cohesive painterly textures, the world feels like it came from a painting or so. It also adds variance to the game because lots of things are just flat and matte but this shader utilizes (multiple) normal maps and has specular lighting which makes it stand out. It is also applied to the only object hazard in the game which makes it special as the hazard stands out from the other surrounding objects.
